# Nouns

## Intro

I believe that on the unit part, nouns are the most important port of speech. They are being used to describe an object in some kind of very direct way. Here I won't be trying to learn new words, but will try to understand which characteristics nouns has in my list of languages. And create a little table to compare them.

This is gonna be more about rules now. I find these characteristic sufficient at this step:
  - Grammatical gender
  - Grammatical case
  - Grammatical number

So in this topic I will just try to understand how these 4 things are working.

## Let's go

### English

#### Grammatical gender

This is the part that I love in English. English doesn't have there kind of genders other languages have. I was talking about it in the previous unit. 
The system is very simple. Only animate nouns can have gender and you will actually face genders when using pronouns, because genders here don't affect anything at all. 

So to understand this part, it's enough to have 3 nouns: girl, boy and pencil.
I will write an example for each of there nouns. Each example also will have a verb, an adjective and a pronoun

```
This is a pencil. It is blunt.
This is a boy. He is blunt.
This is a girl. She is blunt.
```

Easy as a pie. As I haven't written anything about verbs and adjectives yet, I will just say that they ain't changing, no matter what the gender of the noun is. The pronouns are easy too. If the object is inanimate, you should use "it", otherwise you should use "he" or "she" depending on what gender can be considered as corresponding to the noun. Tough sentence, but I'm just trying to be polite here.

#### Grammatical case

As I understand it, in the modern English there is no grammatical case. Something that is similar to case is the _-`s_ suffix. It is being used when an object belong to subject.
```
A boy has a pencil. It's a boy's pencil.
```

That's it. Easy again. And make a perfect sense to me.

#### Grammatical number

Just add the __"-(e)s"__ suffix and you're done. Sometimes it's a bit more complicated but it's so "a bit" that I'm not talking about it here.
```
Boy - Boys 
Girl - Girls
Pencil - Pencils
```

### German

#### Grammatical gender

In German there are 3 genders: **a masculine**, **a feminine** and **a neuter**. How are you supposed to know the gender of a word? Just learn the rules. And then learn billions of exceptions (at least, that's how I'm feeling). 
For example the word **Mädchen** is neutral. "Mädchen" is a girl, you know, but it's **Das Mädchen** anyway. Because of the rule, and for some reason this is not an example of exception. Here 

#### Grammatical case

There are **four** cases in German:

- *Nominative*
- *Accusative*
- *Genitive*
- *Dative*

1. **Nominative**
> Easy. Just use it for the subject of the sentence.

For example:
```
Ein Junge {*does something*}
Ein Mädchen {*does something*}
Eine Frau {*does something*}
```
Also, the nominative is always used after [**sein**]{to be}, [**werden**]{to become} and [**heißen**]{to be called}.

```
Ein Junge ist mein Freund
Ein Mädchen ist eine Tochter.
Die Frau ist deine Mutter.
```

**How to form the Nominative? **
You just need to use articles or pronounces for singular and the plural form of a noun for plural.

| Form      | Definite | Indefinite |
| --------- | -------- | ---------- |
| Masculine | der      | ein/kein   |
| Feminine  | die      | eine/keine |
| Neuter    | das      | ein/kein   |
| Plural    | die      | -/keine    |

Also, you may need to know how pronounces are changing here, but I will write it in the next topic, because it's more about nouns here.

2. **Accusative**
> Not that easy. You use the accusative for the direct object of the sentence.

As I understand, it must be something answering questions **what/who** but not in the nominative way. The direct object is the person or thing having the action done to it (by the subject). 

``` title="For example"
Der Mann isst den Apfel.
Die Frau liebt die Katze.
```

**How to form**

| Form      | Definite | Indefinite   |
| --------- | -------- | ------------ |
| Masculine | den      | einen/keinen |
| Feminine  | die      | eine/keine   |
| Neuter    | das      | ein/kein     |
| Plural    | die      | -/keine      |

And pronounces again. In the next topic.

